We talked a little bit on Tech Talk today, but we got a little bit of a
different crowd here. Some of the same folks too. Maybe I know Odyssey and Eric
and Lionhead were here this morning. Maybe you guys have time to process this.
What do you think about the news that there's gonna be a special version of a
project Photoshop streaming beta available to Chrome on Windows and Chrome
Books? I just wouldn't put it past Adobe to use or agent block it. So you think
they'll detect you're coming from a standard Linux machine and say
Netflix 2.0 is what they're gonna do? Yeah, pretty much. So we had
Tivoization in the early days were when binary blobs and what you
could do with the GPL was really being struggled with and now we have
Netflixation where it's technically possible to run something on a general
Linux box like these Android apps that we saw after a week or so people got
working under Linux. So now you have the Netflixization where it's well we could
technically make it work you know but we don't want to support it so we just
block it all together. Instead of you know which is really
misrepresentative of the of the early era of computing where it was have at it
you can make it work but you're on your own you have to support it yourself.
Which I think all of us in this room would be totally comfortable doing if
there was a way to make project Photoshop streaming beta as that's
what that's his name work on everyday Linux if you had Chrome. I think we would
all take that sort of social contract that it's okay if it doesn't work
perfectly under my distribution because I'm not using it in a supported
environment and you can see a real-world example of that today with Steam.
Steam is technically supported on Ubuntu but it's used across all of the
distributions and there's a social contract in place that sometimes when
you hit a few problems that you might not hit under Ubuntu it's not
necessarily anybody's fault but your own. I imagine what they will do is they
will they will use their same creative cloud streaming stuff and they will
package that up into a Chrome app with some drive like Google Drive.
Here's how it's working on the no it's kind of crazy Josh and I don't know what kind
of VM it is but the way that and I have a link to 95 Google it goes into details.
The way it sounds like it's working is they're actually distributing a VM
through Chrome through a Chrome app and Photoshop will run inside this VM and as
per those virtual limitations there's no GPU acceleration some of the more
advanced effects won't work and there's no access to the local file system so
the only place you can save with this Photoshop project Photoshop streaming
beta the only place you can save is to Google Drive.
You know my mom like my mom's a graphic artist and she'll have like
three four five six gigabyte PSD files sometimes that are just huge layout yeah
I'd have the same thing when I was doing photography I'd have like these huge PST files taking up tons of space I'd be
like great I'm running out of space because I'm doing photography what gives?
Yeah so I'm pretty sure this is aimed more at you know people who make low
quality gifts for Tumblr. No it's aimed at education in fact they're only gonna
distribute it to education. At first. Yeah I think education means low quality
gifts for Tumblr. Well I mean let's be clear this is obviously significant this
is it going in the right step initially we weren't here to begin with like it
wasn't there to begin with well who knows maybe it'll come to Linux at some
point. It sounds like an interesting way to distribute a really thick
application like this. The thing is for education you could also be talking
about not just you know your standard public education you could be talking
about people who do this professionally for professionals and they're not
necessarily going to be needing to run Creative Cloud when you need actual
hardware in front of you that's beefy enough to do these applications.
I agree I agree okay late-breaking pre-show topic submitted by Popey in the
IRC chat room he brings our attention you know I love a good Kickstarter that's
Linux based he brings our attention to Matchstick the streaming stick built on
Firefox OS 2668 backers $61,000 towards a goal of a hundred thousand dollars
with 29 days to go so this looks like like a like a like a Chrome stick what
are those called the Chromecast I'm gonna play this let's see what we get
Matchstick. Fire up online content on your TV with Matchstick. Oh yeah why wouldn't I?
Because it's Matchstick. The first HDMI streaming stick powered by Mozilla's
Firefox OS use your phone tablet or laptop to watch movies listen to music
and play games right on your TV okay no matter where you are powered by Mozilla's
Firefox OS and we need your help to bring it to market Matchstick is
open-sourced and fully adaptable just like Firefox OS we can't wait to see
what you come up with got an idea for a TV app join our
developer network and make it happen help us build Matchstick and let's take
back our favorite online content help us help you to watch whatever whenever all
right so I love the idea of an open-source Chromecast see how big it
is and I also like the idea of just keeping my TV a dumb display and putting
the smart deliver the ultimate you know maybe in my tablet or my smartphone but
guys guys guys guys isn't the critical flaw here you've got to have the support
for it baked into every single freaking app that would ever use this because it
supports the Chromecast protocol ah there's the magic sauce so it's is the
Chromecast is the Chromecast protocol open or they first engineered it's like
mere cast I think I don't know if it's open but it's you can you can create
apps that will stream to that and then that means it's like cuz that is that's
great that is that means like this thing is gonna be like ready to go with a ton
of stuff out of the box and they've opened the designs up as well question I
already have a Chromecast why is this any more compelling than a Chromecast
well it's probably let's do more stuff yeah I mean well there's that and you
could use it across multiple browsers well I'm not entirely sure you could do
that with Chromecast here's the fundamental difference that I think it
does and I'm reading the description right now so I don't know but it looks
like it streams over your Wi-Fi from your device to the Firefox stick seeing
which is contrary to right in the Chromecast that you initiate it from a
remote session and then it pushes that content to the Chromecast I and and and
I actually I don't like the Apple TV at all but the one thing I like about
AirPlay is that all stays on my LAN and I I like that a lot more from just like
a like then there's nothing that registers and logs what it is I've
streamed or initiated that's one small part but then B I feel like I can get a
higher quality more reliable stream if I'm doing over my well set up LAN at
home that has gigabit networking and 802 11 n throughout the house so I have a
better setup there so I would prefer to stream it locally plus some of the stuff
I have is not stuff I'm gonna have up in the cloud that I want to stream so this
yeah okay and I think like even with Plex I from what I understand but it
looks like the majority of it like if I find something for example online and I
send to the Chromecast it's not coming from my device it's coming from whatever
service has like a like the YouTube or something like that if you want to play
locally with with like stuff from Plex and it comes straight from your own
server I never see that's well that's kind of what I was thinking about doing
but now I'm thinking now I'm thinking maybe I'll wait for this and you can
also stream the Chrome's not even your Chrome browser screen but also like any
like my Nexus I can stream it straight to my Chromecast yes you I got a
Chromecast I gave it to Matt but I had a Chromecast and I was thinking about
hooking it up to one of our HDMI capture ports here in the studio and then
whatever I sent to the Chromecast when I would build it I would build a pull in
on the on the switcher but I ended up buying three of them I've got three
Chromecast really house because the kids love it they've got one of them's got an
iPhone one's got an Android tablet and they they stream stuff to the telly
wherever they are so this is I want them to get out the room they go to another
room and stream it to a different so are you backing matchstick then are you
gonna try this yeah yeah I've already backed it yeah I think I might too I
think this is looking good I like that they already have essentially the
hardware designed so they're there they're there in that regard it's a big
device though isn't it oh that's the first version it's behind the telly so
they're really it's only slightly bigger than a Chromecast looks about the size
of the Chromecast isn't it is it well that picture down the some with the
satchel that looks bloody massive is there I'm looking for one where it
looks really big oh boy it does look huge on the satchel you're right it does
oh wow that is huge I mean let's be honest it's gonna be plugged into the
back of your TV or not exactly like the HDMI ports are really close together and
it's hard when you have a really thick that that's true well they usually come
with a tiny cable right an extender yeah and you can pick one up off Amazon for
super cheap or wherever you get your local wires at least it's not like the
one Microsoft is trying to pull yeah so poppy did you see what they're with
their target market prices once they hit production okay that's what I thought so
you can get a two-pack first I think I'm gonna back him for 34 bucks because you
can get a two-pack I got the 24 developer unit because I want to get it
working with Ubuntu 20 you're gonna get 24 of them know that $24 okay okay you're
really gonna get it working with a bunch of like a poppy anyone that when you say
Ubuntu do you mean touch yeah oh that'd be cool
welcome to Linux unplugged your weekly Linux talk show I swear is literally
powered by flannel my name is Chris my name is Matt I I just I'm getting in the
Pacific Northwest spirit today so I'm rocking a new flannel shirt from Costco
and it's comfortable it's super comfortable it's it's nice and and so
that means I'm in a good mood for today's show because I'm in my comfort
zone so I thought today we'd warm up with a nice delicious strip of bacon a
little whiskey and coke and we'd read some feedback I also want to go I talk
about the reaction in the general public to the whole shell shock
vulnerability if maybe it's just getting a little out of hand and I want to get
everybody's opinion on that so we'll pull that in and then we've also got I
apologize Matt if it smells like burnt toast when you walked into the studio
today that's just my ass hair on fire because well that's good to know I'll
tell you what man I don't know if you've been to the subreddit in the last couple
of days whoa Chris is under fire Matt he's under
fire oh yeah yeah I as soon as I see anything negative I'm just like I don't
care it's under fire so well no it's cool it's cool you know what you know
what we're gonna talk about it we're gonna talk about it we'll talk to the
people that's why I want everybody to get their whiskey and bacon so that way
we're gonna we'll get to that in a little bit in the show so we'll do
we'll talk about it then so everybody just prepare yourselves mentally for
that with your whiskey and bacon and first to get us started we'll take a
little walk down feedback lane with our discussion around XFCE last week and we
got a couple of emails about the state of XFC and Nick wrote in with a question
looking towards the future so I will bring in the mumble room hey there guys
we're gonna get to our first email this week and I want to see if you think that
maybe XFCE is just waiting around for Whalen to make its move so here's Nick's
thought he says I wanted to weigh in on the discussion regarding the future of
XFCE I toyed with the idea some time ago of maybe trying to pitch a port of XFCE
to GTK 3 but I eventually decided just to give up and move to elementary OS
which I'm fairly happy with but my dream is to have a box style window manager
with modular components for a panel a menu and a file manager etc and it but
it needs to take advantage of Whalen to add subtle compositing effects and
animations is it possible there are more XFCE fans out there who are waiting for
the next generation of display managers to land before we start a rewrite of the
desktop just thought well Nick what do you think that first thing if you're
using the words compositing and XFC in the same sentence you're going the wrong
direction now I say this is someone that's done this now I speak as I speak
as a previous addict to such things I used to do this okay and so I'm not
ripping on the guy at all I totally get the reasoning because you're thinking oh
I could have the lightweight goodness and you know yeah I could also have the
composite right yeah you know just go known at that point really well that's
kind of what I'm wondering but okay I know we have a couple of XFC users in
the mumble room guys in there anybody feeling like maybe XFC should just hang
tight for a couple years let Whalen settle in let the drivers get mature let
distro start shipping it by default then XFC needs to get off the pot is this
maybe any XFC guys want to chime in on that maybe that's what's going on go
ahead well have you read read the roadmap where they've outlined where
they're gonna be implementing GTK 3 and that would obviously be there their
precursor to Whalen support so like you're doubtful well that it was
originally on the agenda for 412 but it's now being bumped so they're gonna
stick with GTK 2 for the next major revision by the sounds of it so I see
what you're saying it's kind of like it keeps getting bumped a little bit and so
now you're starting to get skeptical rotten corpse want to toss it to you I
think you're maybe our resident XFC skeptic what do you think about rotten
seriously what do you think about the idea of maybe just not changing
something for a little while and letting the Linux ecosystem sort of stabilize
and then worrying about it is that really that ridiculous well that if
that's the case then they've been having that same opinion for the past decade
and so that's not very practical but if some if other people who are not part of
the current team want to fork it and make a new one that's based on Whalen
there's something like that when it when everything settles that could be
interesting but the the team that right now their track record is we we will
they'll say that they're gonna do something never actually do it push it
push everything back release things like on average every two years maybe two and
a half years and essentially make promises that never come to fruition see
I feel like it's it's too there's two planes to this debate there is the the
argument that you're making right there rotten about failed expectations the
need to adapt to future changes of Linux responding to user needs stagnation
things like that and then there's also the real world use case where I think
I've said this story once before on there but I worked at a school district
and when I was there the one of the IT guys had a Debian XFCE box running on
like a like an old Dell something tower and I left and came back like nine years
later I think it was or eight years later and that guy was still using
Debian with XFCE on that same Dell and it works for him and he actually to him
that stagnation was the number one reason he chose those that distribution
and that desktop that was the number one features for him because he wanted to
have stability you can have stability and you can have you know updates still
and still keep the the lightweight stuff for example having mate on Debian or
right Ubuntu or whatever yeah I think I think if he was if he was gonna build a
box today he'd go mate or mate is what he would do and I think that's yeah I
okay we've got one more thing on XFCE I Kjell writes and Kjell writes and
says I I don't see the XFCE future as grim as most of your mumble users he
says I dug around for five minutes on the XFCE form jump jumped into the
mailing list and well I what I see tells a slightly different story I don't think
development commits for XFC are actually shown in the public git until they're
released hence it looks like they really haven't done anything since 4.10 and I
don't know if that's true or not but he says that XFCE 4-PWM 1.4 was announced
and released September 15th it was patched just three days ago
arch already has it in testing maybe the Debian could do their own testing to
move from experimental to unstable so he points out that there is current
development happening and there are some distributions that have newer packages
and he points out that sometimes they don't commit to their public git until
it's in a release stage which seems kind of backwards but he says there's also an
interesting thread about 412 stabilization in the mailing list so
we'll have links to that if you guys want to check it out he also wanted to
chime in about XFCE moving to QT he says why would they toss out 1.5 years of
coding for version what's that go ahead no okay she's why would they toss out
years of coding for version 4.12 that's not gonna happen at all he thinks he
doesn't think they'll be moving to QT which was tossed around in one last
piece he says Matei has a modern replacement well I tried it several
times I've always had issues it's nice looking but it doesn't feel mature at
all but he acknowledges that is a subjective opinion so there you go some
pro XFCE stuff I you know I thought about it after our episode last week and
I you know the thing that I really walked away from the conversation I
can't remember if I said this in the post show or not but I realized after
last week's show that your mic keeps popping open I realized after last week's
show that I stopped installing XFCE about a year ago and I was trying to
think about why that was and I think what I came down to is there's just a
lot of really great lightweight alternatives like LXQT now or Matei yeah
that just have my interest more and it's for me it's just a personal taste thing
and I think I think a lot of times you know we have these crazy debates and we
don't allow for personal opinion to be a perfectly legitimate deciding factor and
and it goes across all things it's not just as Linux users right look at the
Mac Windows Android iOS debates like we never just leave room for personal
preference and allow that to be a justifying reason you can be an XFCE fan
and enjoy XFCE in despite of all of its potential problems and that's okay right
and and it's not like you're spending a bunch of money you know I mean maybe
exactly the iOS and Android wars almost make more sense because there's hundreds
of dollars on the line and those know that this one it's just free software
you're picking from so yeah people need to be right all the time I don't know
it's like it's yeah I don't understand I never understood that it's like why did
you know it's okay to have an opinion and your needs may differ from mine
that's always been my philosophy go ahead line and what were you gonna chime
in with no I'm just since last Tuesday I've installed Matei on every desktop I
have really with it and I find that it does everything that affects XFCE way
yeah yeah I can actually live with it yeah I'm not feel compromised right right
yes that is you know that's a great point about Matei isn't it is that
they've walked the line where it's the classic desktop UI but they keep
bringing little elements of modernization and the functionality is
there and so you can really just sit down and you have the classic environment
with a few tweaks and touches here I think you know you know we're gonna get
to Ubuntu 1410 in a couple of minutes and I think one of the things I'm
looking forward to the most about it for Ubuntu 1410 is and maybe wimpy and
poppy I'm right in that by 1410 when it ships Ubuntu Matei at that point will be
an official spin of Ubuntu close but not quite close but not quite yeah good
enough for government work or what yeah yeah we're gonna we're definitely gonna
release have been released and on the same schedule as the official Ubuntu
flavors I think we're gonna miss being official for 1410 but the the work has
already started and I think that will will be official early in the 1504
cycle okay so I mean there will be a 1410 release that you can download and
install and all that good stuff I'm looking forward to that and we're gonna
get into the Ubuntu stuff in a bit but I am I am honestly looking forward to
that then I am the main Ubuntu release and I'm also looking forward to the
Kubuntu spin more I and I think you know we're gonna talk about it so I don't
want to spoil it but um that's some of where the more exciting stuff is
happening in Ubuntu so and I just don't feel that way about an XFCE spin I knew
Zubuntu is out there they do great work but I'm not excited you know so it's
just what I walked away with and that's just you know what it's just my personal
take on it it could be there is somebody out there there probably is people out
there really excited about the next Zubuntu release aside from the Zubuntu
team of course and so I just I wanted to walk away from the XFCE discussion and I
think I don't think we really upset anybody but I just wanted to say like
even if all other things aside you just don't like it or you do like it that's
okay too and I think we should just work on accepting that a little bit and that
we'll get into more than a minute but and and to carry on with the positivity
there about XFCE if you are an XFCE fan then install Zubuntu 14.04 and you can
be running that OS for the next five years right right very much now because
because 14.04 is not going to yank or change any of the underlying libraries
or APIs so that desktop is solid and good to go for the next five years so if
that's your thing then that's the platform to go for right good point
thank you sir your D won't update anyway so yeah perfect Wow Wow yeah I mean I
was trying to see you see how I had it all like some like actual work done
instead of caring about version numbers all right we don't need to get into
debate I was trying to end the XFC discussion with warm fuzzies okay now
you guys are getting into it again all right I mean on the plus side there
should be at least one release of XC XFCE in next five years yeah and that's
fine there you go who needs more than that not not me all right so before we
move on any further because we do have some more follow-up to get into and
actually a classic computer debate it's not it I there's a few debates that I
think we could retread a few times and it changes all the time I'm really
curious to hear what Matt in the mumble room do but first I want to mention
Linux Academy our first sponsor of the Linux unplugged show I'm so glad they're
a sponsor of our show because they are a perfect fit for our audience if you guys
just want to go out there and move your skill set forward a little bit or a lot
of it maybe you need something to help get that next job or maybe you just need
something to check something off on the review that you have every single year
or something to help you bill or complete a contract if you've been
thrown into a position where you got to catch something you know got to make it
work quick you got to really hit the ground running and you got to get up
yourself up to speed on like the lamb stack or open stack or virtualization
or AWS will Linux Academy has got you covered and if you go to Linux Academy
comm slash unplugged you're gonna get a 33% discount that's a great offering so
what is Linux Academy I kind of just told you it's really a way for you to go
do self-paced training with an amazing dashboard and you can pick from seven
plus Linux distributions and they'll automatically adjust the courseware to
match the distribution you've chosen and they're rolling out new features they've
got videos they got audio comprehensive study guides you can download and
listen to or watch offline or while you're commuting I've heard people use
them as podcasts and they're always adding new courseware constantly they're
really hustling on all that they recently introduced learning plans they
let you select your daily availability and they'll automatically adjust the
courseware and they'll also give you lessons and quizzes and give you status
updates as you go along this is really an awesome way to for myself to kind of
stay informed on new technology as it emerges because I'm back in the day the
way I would discover if I'd liked something is I would go implement it for
a for a job for a client whatever for myself at home and then I would be stuck
either supporting something I hated or attempted to fiddle with something I
loved Linux Academy is like my healthy outlet for that discoverability not only
because it's an all-I-can-eat approach and they've got tons of courseware over
there so I can just keep going as fast as I can dig through it but I can try
out different areas and experiment with things I never would have done for
example I could be playing around with a sequel setup and when it comes time to
actually launch the sequel server and go through the backup part part of it
they'll spin up the virtual lab for me they do that automatically for AWS or
any other server instance and they're doing it even cooler now you can do
shared server instances with public IPs and domain names it is really getting
advanced and it's all just part of your Linux Academy subscription so go to
linuxacademy.com slash unplug try out some of their AWS courses with
scenario-based learning their virtual labs all of it their live streams where
you can ask the educators questions directly or their community where you
can get involved and ask your fellow students linuxacademy.com slash unplug
linuxacademy.com slash unplugged and a huge thank you to Linux Academy for
sponsoring the Linux unplugged show such a great fit for our audience a lot of
great opportunities for you guys linuxacademy.com slash unplugged okay
just a couple bits of email before we get into kind of our big topic or one of
our big topics of the day so Craig writes in with a classic debate dearest
Matt Chris in mumble room I'm a Linux user slash enthusiast an aspiring Linux
sysadmin I'm a longtime listener of lass well under a year and a first-time
emailer I understand what hibernate suspend and shut down all do so he's got
the basics I'm just curious though which one is the best for a healthy Linux
system I've read the hibernation is bad in some regards I'm not really sure why
I just kind of looked that and thought well if I've been suspending and maybe I
should be shutting down instead what do you guys think what does the mumble room
think are you worried about cron jobs not executing and cleaning your system
up or your package cache not updating automatically do you leave your system
running on all the time do you sleep but when you're not using do you shut it
down Matt what is your computer hygiene approach for me I tend to leave most most
of the time I leave stuff on if there's like a lightning storm or I'm like
changing out a UPS or something then I might actually turn things off but for
the most part I just leave everything on I do too especially in the studio where
I've definitely noticed when I shut stuff down I always have problems for
example I put the screen to sleep on the bonobo before I left the studio earlier
today and when I got back the capture system was no longer working because it
detected the screen went blank and so it shut off the HDMI capture port and I had
to reboot everything to get stuff working where if I just left it all on
it would be working when I got back I keep my server running but that's
because it's running an SSD and shuts down its external hard drive when it
needs to yeah so I leave it running I'll probably update it like maybe once a
week just to make sure the security updates are good to go but other than
that it just stays running I don't have to worry about it mm-hmm mm-hmm I've
never considered that about Chrome jobs or cleaning up or anything I just
suspend the device and wake it up when I want to use it yeah yeah I definitely do
some of my laptops that way it depends for me the desktops I leave on 24-7 the
laptops I sleep yeah I sleep my laptop as well if I'm not around I just close
the lid and it sleeps yeah and I never hibernate ever well it's just these days
there's too much you have too much RAM so you have to have a huge hibernation
file sitting around and when you got an SSD that's expensive it's faster I just
for me I just end up shutting it off because you know I booted up in ten
seconds later my computers up and running and already opening programs
automatic yeah my Chrome has got like a thousand tabs open just to reload them
after a review so I just suspend and wake out it's fun my wife has that same
problem but for me it of the too many tabs open but for me it just becomes I'm
just accessing my laptop so often that if I had to start it up and shut it down
constantly that's all I would do all day yeah all right Josh was saying that you
know you know spins up in ten seconds anyway so if you just shut it down yeah
it's not a problem especially if we're running Linux if we're running Windows
and it decides oh I need to install this update then you're gonna have a little
bit of time to wait yeah that's a point where suspend comes in handy a whole lot
more TV K in the chair in the chat room says that he just suspends to save his
power bill you know just to save on power wimpy you were gonna make a
mention about Z RAM right yeah so I've been I've switched as Z RAM for all of
my system so I've done away with swap and therefore have no hibernate
capability on my laptops anymore because without swap partition you can't
hibernate unless you install some of those user space tools so but Z RAM
works really well and if you've got SSDs it's a nice way to give yourself some
relief if your systems under memory pressure very nice so there's our take
on if we hibernate sleep or shut down it seems like it's a little bit of a mix
but I'm hearing a lot of leave-ons especially for desktops very interesting
I also I'd leave the bonobo in a 24-7 because this in the studio but it was a
beast man and the nice thing about bonobos it's well-ventilated so alright
so I want to move in to the topic that was sparked after Sunday's coverage of
Ubuntu 1410 and before we get into that so in the Linux action show subreddit
and in the email there are a lot of people that apparently decided that I am
very biased against Ubuntu and one of the reasons decided was that I skipped
over talking Unity's touch support when we were talking about gnome 3.14 I just
want to clear the ground right now just quickly mentioned that was not me
sliding unity at all that was just me focusing on gnome 3.14 because we were
covering gnome 3.14 we were not covering what unity can do we were covering what
gnome can do so I just didn't mention it doesn't mean I was intentionally because
I don't like it leaving it out it was because I was talking about gnome and
what gnome was adding and what Wayland was adding so but there is more
contention over our coverage of Ubuntu 1410 itself it's probably you know
people you know what Matt people hate crickets I think is what it is people
just hate cricket I think it is yeah I think the crickets may have been
something that kind of set folks off yeah it's just too much I think and I
think all of that people have explosions a lot of it boils down to a
misunderstanding of I think a lot of people attributed it to arch fanboyism
on my part and that I was such an arch fanboy that I was putting Ubuntu down
because of it and I think a lot of it was probably coming from people who
haven't watched the shows for a long time because I think you know people
sometimes what happens is people see that I am pro something I you know I was
very pro Ubuntu very pro unity of the desktop for a long time I still think
it's a good desktop and so because I was pro something for a long time it is to
them illogical that I would now say something that is not pro because you
know once you like something you're supposed to like it forever but I think
people who watch me know that my opinions change over time based on
results and the way things go I'll give you a great example I think you could go
back in time and you could clearly see episodes where I was slamming on fedora
pretty handily slamming on fedora for maybe the entire review now my position
on fedora has changed quite a bit as they sort of are addressing some of
these problems I would say I still approach fedora with some tepidation and
and some level of skepticism but I am I am impressed with the changes they're
making I'm impressed with their project leader obviously we've had them on the
show twice in a few weeks and it's in the times of course the second time
wasn't really about fedora but so it you know it was funny because in that very
episode of people say well Chris is such an arch fanboy they were completely
negating the fact that we have like a 25 minute interview with the lead of the
project of the fedora project my point is it's not a bias towards arch that
influences my reporting on Ubuntu I don't have any distribution bias at all
that would be ridiculous the reason I go with arch is because it does everything
I needed to do and it doesn't feel like a distribution it doesn't have politics
it doesn't have councils it doesn't have advisory boards it just is and you don't
have to worry about the politics and the people it just it feels just like a
meta layer on top of Linux that's why I like arch just I could just as easily
switch to fedora next when they've got that rolling I could see that happening
in you know in the next year or so I don't have allegiance to any one
particular distribution I do have a bias though and that bias is a bias towards
winning people who are doing it right people who are producing results people
who are coming through on what they say they will do and as a company any
project doesn't have to be Ubuntu as any project slides in one direction or the
other my coverage of that project will reflect that slide so if they say now
I'm sorry Poby but let's just say there were supposed to be two phones already
in the marketplace let's just say Mir was already supposed to ship let's say
that Ubuntu 1410 is the most boring Linux desktop release we've ever seen
from the most important distro maker out there let's accept all of these things
as genuine facts unfortunate facts but let's just accept those things me
reporting on that does not mean I have an Ubuntu agenda where I want to tear
Ubuntu down it's me reporting on the state of Ubuntu one of the more
important distributions in the market it's not coming from an arch influence
it's coming from following these things and maybe a little disappointment does
that make sense like Matt can you fill in am I missing any gaps here I think
you pretty much hit it I mean it's you know it's basically different it really
boils down to different strokes for different folks I think it's just word
is at the end of the day and for you you have a specific set of expectations that
one distro or another may or may not be meeting and that could of course change
over time I think what I'm I think what I'm trying to get to is it feels like
the conversation I don't know if poisoned is the right word or derailed
but the rails right this latching on to oh well he's just saying that because
he's a fanboy or Chris is too biased by arch to cover it just me saying that out
loud sounds ridiculous and childish I would the concept that I would have some
sort of allegiance to some Linux distribution that would influence my
coverage of it is ridiculous what I will do is identify a Linux distribution that
does something interesting and if they're doing that something better than
everybody else is I might suggest those other distributions try to adopt some of
those things but that doesn't make them invalid I've used every distribution out
there I also don't report much on Mandriva do I that doesn't mean I have
an anti Mandriva bias it just means they're not really moving the needle
much these days so they don't really work their way up into the coverage very
often well I think it's also worth mentioning it's someone will undoubtedly
point out okay then why are why do we does it appear that we quote-unquote
rip on a boon to but not on Mandriva and my response to that would be simply
because we have a set of expectations for this particular distro one that
we've had a lot of great experiences with and we just simply want to see
certain things addressed and that's not happening the realm for myself
Ubuntu's relevance in the marketplace makes it more likely to receive
criticism and it also makes it more likely to receive praise and hype I mean
there there's two sides to that coin absolutely higher expectations and so
like in the chat rooms pointing out why do we dog on Mir and not wait on well
actually I don't really think we dog on Mir in fact if you trace the here in the
last no but if you trace the history of our show back when Mir was announced we
were some of the biggest defenders of hey let him try it let him give give
him space and let him do something and we took so much shit for that like Matt
nice stuff in a monkey suit exactly exactly I brought the monkey suit to be
like we were there like saying let him give him a shot and the thing is is
it's not that we don't want them to still have a shot it's just the
fundamental fact is we're still waiting that was that was a long time ago that's
fine that's these things take time but results at the end of the day are what
we have to report on that's what we have here to talk about that's what the
discussion is about that's the reality and so when OMG Ubuntu is in bold and
italic saying there's no new features not even a new wallpaper what is the
Linux action show supposed to say what dick am I supposed to suck to make all
of you happy because there is no dick I can find holy shit pretty much right I
mean seriously yeah there I mean I I was so we are working right now on a
different approach to our Ubuntu reviews that I think it was producer Eric's idea
and I think it's a really solid idea it'll make our Ubuntu 14.10 reviews
extremely interesting but it is requiring a completely reformulation of
the way we approach a Linux distribution because we have to find something to
talk about to talk about otherwise we just wouldn't review it and that doesn't
seem like a good option either I have covered this distribution for a long
time and I've never been at a point where I've literally had no idea what to
say other than bad things so I'm working so we're working on a new formula to
come up give the respin some attention and and and really kind of have a nice
comprehensive look at it I'm pretty happy with where we're going with it but
it's required a total adjustment of our approach because of the situation we now
find ourselves in and I feel like you know there's a lot of energy being put
in by our community there's about five threads in the Linux action show sub
reddit right now if you count threads that have also devolved into this topic
so there's two or three primary threads and one or two that have devolved into
this topic currently live in the Linux action show subreddit claiming that we
are so far off base with Ubuntu 1410 because of our biases and etc etc it's
there's no way for me to tell you this there's no anti Ubuntu agenda here
there's no arch bias here there is a bias towards winning there is some
Linux elitism because we've been Linux users for a very long time and we start
to know when something smells like shit and we start to know when something's
winning and we call it like it is there I will grant you those things bias
towards winning and an elitism that isn't arch elitism it's just a Linux
user elitism that just it's just there because honestly after you see enough of
this crap you start to tell people get off your lawn it's not a function of
being against Ubuntu it's just calling a spade a spade or whatever the saying is
I don't even know it's just that's what that's where we're at right now and I I
want to address this because I'm seeing there's a lot of energy being put into
this so here's a great and there's some great posts I mean like a lot of thought
is being put into this stuff but it's kind of it's kind of misguided in the
sense that the trouble is we we will continue to say if something's bad we
will I believe it is our responsibility if something isn't going right we cannot
sit here on this show it is the number one watch Linux media I cannot sit on
that show and say something is great when it's not great it is our
responsibility in any way we can to help these things move along in the right
direction if that's just our voice that's just echoing the thought of some
users that's fine if other projects watch this stuff and go hmm maybe we
should rethink this that's great it doesn't really matter but we we have to
be genuine to what we believe and you have to understand that it's it's not
it's not about us going after shuttleworth or making poppy cry or
anything like that because at the end of the day if you watch the show long
enough you will know that if they start producing results if in 2015 we start
seeing several great phone models come out and and it's kind of great and you
know down the road by unity 8's got its bugs worked out and it's great and
mirrors we will be beyond elated to cover that on the show I love covering
stuff that rocks under Linux that's why the word action is in the Linux action
show we like covering the stuff that kicks the most ass every single week in
Linux and open source I will be the happiest person trust me I nobody will
be happier than Chris because it'll be great content for the Linux action show
when they have something that we all love go ahead Bobby you got your mic
open you might as well go so there's a few things I I didn't know about your
review and because I was away at a conference over that's someone that's
fine and then someone pointed out to me and so I I watched it a bit earlier on
and there's a few things that struck me one was that you kind of missed the fact
that we've been saying all through this release that the focus is on phone we've
said it over and over again right but you've waited until beta release before
you decide to review it and then say it sucks because of what we've been saying
on the desktop this is this is specifically this specifically why I
aired those concerns when we were talking about the beta release because I
want to put all that out on the table and I don't want it to influence the
review it's out there now now it's not gonna be part of the review see what I
was essentially doing was taking that and and and extracting that bit of what
would have been in the review and putting it in that news bit and now when
the review comes we have a that's not a review don't that us covering something
then I'm picking on you about this because we get this all the time us
covering a news item is not us reviewing something in the show and you specifically
said that we make a big song and dance about it which we didn't we've mailed a
mailing list saying the beta is out OMG post an article about it that doesn't
mean we've made a song and dance about 1410 we haven't made a song no no no I
because we're not focused on it no I think Matt's point there was that there
used to be a song and dance and now you specifically said about there being a
someone does anyway that that was one thing was you know why why bring it up
when you know we keep saying this is not a big release it's not the first big
release that's that's not been that's not had made because it's more unusual
for the in-between LTS is to be so boring it's more often you know the LTS
is about the refinement the polish and then that the big experimentation
happens in the dot-10 release and that's always the one really 610 didn't change
much 1210 didn't change a lot but 1210 have the shopping lens so everybody had
something to talk about right well I think a lot of interesting things that
happened in the 10 releases and shopping lens is obviously the big one and this
one those were both post LTS releases right that's my point they didn't have
yeah and they didn't have tremendously huge game-changing things are you going
back to 610 I mean that's well that was the first one that came to mind okay
because the ones in the middle of the head the ones the ones after that had unity
and obviously that's a massive yeah exactly I mean so yeah the other thing
is there's it's not just a bun to you you know that not a lot has changed in
a bun to but then there's come into the bun to use of them to but that's so
that's it yeah I agree that's where the interesting stuff is happening district
right well oh oh now now they're just one flavors now now when that's the only
place where the innovation is happening now Ubuntu is just one of the many
flavors but of course when all the innovations happening one of the many
now of course of course it always yet they're just yeah it's just one of it's
the main dog and the point is is all the innovation all the excitement is
happening in all of the other flavors which you know it worked great over a
lot it was a lot of excitement going on in any of the others either oh ouch to
be honest dude look at them at a kabuntus got plasma 5 preview dude
that's great that's that's you and that's not that's not in the archive the
release that's a preview ISO isn't it in the same way that unity 8 next and is a
preview ISO also the mate project isn't officially in a boom to flavor it seems
like there's a common thread which is one that I didn't list my point is
really because it's not an official you don't think it's a problem that all of
the interesting things are happening all of the distros based off you I didn't
say that I said there are other distros that there are other flavors of Ubuntu
and there are interesting things going on there you only focused on Ubuntu you
didn't mention any of the others because that's the point I was making those
others were gonna those are again this wasn't a full review this is an
announcement of the Ubuntu 1410 beta right well in fact you don't see doesn't
participate in the the alphas and betas as much as all the others do so it would
be more interesting to talk about all the others on this particular release oh
I like how your tell okay oh okay right so poppy you don't know is that no it's
not fair to say that these these guys are all participating and building up
you don't see the justification you're doing here you don't see how how by you
don't see the deferment that's happening by saying well yeah of course nothing's
happening in Ubuntu but don't pay attention to main Ubuntu don't pay
attention to the most important distribution don't put the attention all
the one that has all the people officially working for canonical on pay
attention all the ones based off of us pay attention to these guys over here
this is a total change just saying that these others are just as important as
Ubuntu in this that's not true at all that's not true at all and you know
that's not true at all no that is not true they are very important but they
are not as important as going to I don't believe that they're not as important
come on come on no I don't we have an archive that has a variety of desktops
and more than there are flavors you know there's lots of other desktops in the
archive that are important in fact Marty is now in the archive as well and
they're all important none of them are I love all my children I know I know years
ago Katie felt themselves as the blue-headed stepchild and that was
that was frustrating because we put a lot of work I'm just gonna put that out
there so I think I think you know when you're entitled to your opinion of
course I just think it's not an opinion I mean yes my opinion that it is
discipline where the opinion comes in is in my disappointment but the fact of
the matter is there really is nothing to talk about right okay but you could
argue that that's the same thing with every LTS this isn't an LTS release no
this none of the same package with every every time there's something that the
release right after an LTS it always happens it's just more refinement to the
route to the LTS 10 12 10 14 10 it's the same you just you just listed all the
ones where they rolled out major changes to the unity dash including search and
privacy features just the ones you just named where there was massive changes
no the the 10 10 was known to 12 10 was a slight changes with the the adding
search adding Amazon search to change that's a huge change as far as
functionality it's the same I mean it's nice like it's basically I don't want to
argue version numbers you add Amazon search to the dashboard that's a big
change there's a lot to talk about when you're an LTS just being an LTS that's
something to talk about okay you guys and we're getting down into the weeds of
what versions of Ubuntu have what features the important part is what we
really what I want to make walk walking from is a that wasn't a review okay we're
going to do something different for the actual review where we'll look at we'll
take a look at the spin so so don't consider that like our final opinion on
Ubuntu 1410 however we are at an interesting point in Ubuntu's history
right now we're kind of in the thick of it and we are documenting what happens
while they are making this huge huge huge transition this is what happens
right now we don't know and we're not casting what's going to happen we're not
projecting what's going to happen but what we do know is right now what we
get what so what we will get in the long run is potentially a competitive mobile
operating system that has some great features that could tie in really nicely
with desktops and offer power Linux users a great experience but what we
have today is not a great experience for Linux power users today and that's what
we're documenting the fact that we could be released 1210 doesn't make 1204
instantly or that sorry 40 dead doesn't make 1404 instantly obsolete actually I
think that's the interesting thing about 1410 is in a lot of ways it doesn't
change 1404 relevance at all you add a few PPAs to 1404 you don't have to
change anything right right and we do hardware enablement kernels and XOR
back ports to the LTS release so yeah so you could you could consider 1410 to be
not exciting not that much going on so fine that that's happened in the past
we're focused on other stuff and we'll come back to desktop next release I kind
of feel like I mean so why am I getting beat up on for saying that I don't know
I that's I was quite surprised myself that people reacted so badly I my only
point was that you only focused on Ubuntu I didn't focus on the other that
was a little sleight of hand because I plan to focus more on the respins later
and I figured I'd get that criticism out of the way so that way wasn't in the
review it's all sort of pre setting up the review it's me kind of so like so
some of this was was format formatting for the show for the arc of the story
here like I didn't talk about unity's multi-touch support because we had just
talked about that and I was talking about no so people took that as me
sliding unity and then when we got to the Ubuntu 1410 discussion I didn't
really talk about the remixes and the reflavors because that's what we're
gonna focus on in the review because what the hell else can we focus on and I
don't want to just spend the whole review criticizing all of the mistakes
and we retrashing the software center like we like we often do so we got it
out right there in the new segment now it's done now it's sort of like it's
it's setting up the narrative for the review setting up the expectations
setting up the state of things and then what I'm really looking forward to this
review this sounds awesome and then we deliver well we'll see I mean maybe not
you know and so I guess people kind of jumped down like our throats for a lot
lately whenever we kind of bring up the topic of Ubuntu and it sort of feels
like there's an expectation that we really should only talk about the good
stuff and I could agree there could be more good stuff we talk about yeah we
get grief for that too though yeah exactly well that was that was the thing
is like we used to get a ton of grief about that but this week it was
particularly strong so I don't know if we've helped I don't know if we've made
any sense in any of this but I I definitely want I want to tamp down I
want to I find it insulting I find it personally insulting to be called an
arch fanboy because it implies that I am so simple-minded that my preference for
one distribution over another would somehow like infect how I think about
everything in my life when really there was one other thing oh yeah I forgot to
mention the the known release schedule meaning that we don't have the latest
and greatest known in you know okay that was that you know that's that's kind of
sad and it's a bit frustrating that we can't sink those things up it would be
nice if we could but you know our six months releases have been like that for
ten years and when we had known as a desktop I think we made exceptions and
would pull it in at the last minute yeah but now now GNOME isn't our default
desktop so you know should we should we bust a gut to get GNOME in there for the
final release when it isn't even our default desktop I agree I think and the
fact that there is a pretty good PPA system in place where you can grab the
the reason why and I don't think I said this in the show but the reason why I
would love to see it just as a personal preference is a would definitely make
Ubuntu feel much more like a contender for me to use as my daily driver but
there's there's Ubuntu no meditation but also it's just kind of seems like maybe
while unity isn't seen a lot of stuff why we're just going you know just small
bug fixes here and there wouldn't it be really cool if there was a you know a
very fresh being worked on desktop available to me to choose from and that
would be known 314 and to be honest with you I I honestly think a lot of Linux
users are going to install for door 21 because it'll be one of the first
distros that does known 314 out of the box and they will install it just for
that reason alone and so if it would just be a nice feather in the buntu 14
tens cap if it could be like a great way to get known 3.14 right out of the box
that's why I kind of brought it up because I think that would be a great
combo while unity's kind of on the shelf but I understand you know really
schedules and whatnot that's just how it goes and the PPA solve that that's fine
chat room mentions you know maybe it's not what we're talking but maybe it's
how it's brought up I think maybe that's potentially true but at the end of the
day you have to understand that we have to provide some level of entertainment
too so there has to be something to engage people there has to be something
that makes people really feel passionate and want to you know engage with us
because sometimes if you just keep it really dry and boring people get bored
and they tune out so sometimes it might be if it's presented in a certain way
that you find offensive consider that maybe it's being presented in a certain
way to grab attention well the love of God people stop being so friggin
sensitive I mean that's my first and foremost I recommend a boom to everybody
I do and I rip on them hard because I've high expectations everyone I know that
recently switched to Linux is using a boom to and I will continue to do so
because it's a good distro I will also continue to rip on it because I care so
I'll throw the I'll throw this in for you Chris today I installed fedora 21
or 20 and possess you to do so such a thing so I just I don't know I don't
know if we're gonna ever resolve this because it's it's such a fundamental
like I understand you know you guys are really passionate about some of these
projects some of you don't just contribute you know your your voice but
you also contribute your time and your code and I don't I don't want to
discourage anybody from volunteering on any open source project they're into and
I hope I hope you will maybe consider just stick with us for a little bit and
consider that our opinions are not I think it's a benefit to be somebody who
constantly reevaluates the way they think about things and their opinions of
things and you can see over time those will transition there's a lot of things
over the history of the Linux action show where we came down pretty hard on
something and as they were as those things were addressed our I mean I know
is another one gnome 3 oh yeah right I mean no and the reason was is at first
gnome 3 was no good it just was no good and it has gotten a lot better and now
our our tone our coverage of gnome has changed to reflect that it's it's just
kind of natural if you think about it it's not that weird it just it does it's
it just kind of it's not a fanboy thing it's it's just actions people out of
them words and here's a tip for folks that want to that want to bring up a
legitimate point if they want to bring up legitimate concerns like I have a
concern with blank and they want to address that concern directly that's a
conversation like what we did here today if they're in the reddit you know on
reddit and they're all that oh that's just they're just ranting and raving
if they're not bringing up specifics it's noise I don't care if they bring up
specifics it's a conversation that's your differentiator if they're not
having a conversation to waste your time with them if they want to talk about
specifics like we did today that's awesome because that's progress that's
just my view I agree and yeah I I hope I hope that we'll find a good way to
tackle Ubuntu 1410 and it's gonna be interesting too to see how the reviews
go because yes a lot of people are gonna have to reformulate the way they review
a distribution and I think some will do it successfully and others won't so
we'll see how that works out yeah I think we just take tackle one thing at a
time a concern point let's tackle that let's have the conversation move on to
the next concern point and that's all we got to do I like points I think you've
got to think yourself lucky that this release is a nice calm relaxed not too
much changing going on in the next couple of releases you're gonna start
seeing you know the conversion desktop new apps everywhere cute and everything
so yeah I think it could be like we could be literally this time in a year
so I'll be like gosh remember when we were complaining about it being boring
gosh I think right now support for a lot of a bunch of desktops so this stuff
matters to me you know certainly yeah yeah yeah maybe maybe yeah maybe it'll
be a new market Matt speaking of a new market tings trying to make the mobile
industry a brand new market let me tell you about ting calm go to Linux dot ting
comm they're our next sponsor of the Linux almost a Linux action show I
almost don't give don't give those jerks over the Linux action show credit they
don't deserve it at all but I've heard they're just a bunch of Ubuntu hating
arch fanboy jerks so don't give them any credit give these Linux unplug guys
credit they're much nicer Linux dot ting comm that also take $25 off your first
device if you've got a ting compatible device well then they'll give you a
$25 credit that paid for more than my first month of service and and ting is
always busting out ways for their customers to save money they have a blog
post up right now over at ting comm slash blog but go to Linux dot ting comm first
and it's basically here's how you can get free calls on ting it's essentially
it's it's routing your calls using Google Hangouts over Wi-Fi and they just
lay it all out there for you nothing about that think about what that means
that means you're not gonna rack up as many minutes that means they're gonna
make less money ting don't care they're honey badger no contracts no early
termination fees and you only pay for what you use it's a flat six dollars a
month and they take your minutes your messages your megabytes they add them
all up whatever bucket you fall into at the end of the month son that's all you
pay shoot can you believe that my bills like I mean I got I got three lines my
bills like 40 bucks now but that's it for three lines I got three lines I got
that's nuts for 40 bucks and that's with data and hotspot and tethering picture
messaging caller ID all included of course I'm using a bunch of data and I
don't use a lot of voice and if you flip it around it's just whatever you use
more of that's just what you pay it's a really slick system and of course now
ting is officially welcoming the iPhone 5s and 5c so if you've got a compatible
device and you want to bring it over go get some more life out of your iPhone
5c or 5s bring it over to ting with no contract no early termination fee it
makes this a great device for kids too this is a really super way to get your
kids something as a data connection but only pay when they actually use it which
is nice they also have some great my fi hotspots of work excellent for that same
kind of thing so go to linux.ting.com try out that savings calculator put in
what you actually pay for right now so the the minute plan and them and the
megabytes that you have to prepay for and the messages you have to prepay for
plug all that in but just plug in your usage not not what you are paying for
just what you actually use see that's the that's the entire difference with
ting it's what you actually use you're not buying the prepaid stuff that the
extra minutes in case you use them and they oh I might go over 4 gigs so I
better get the 6 gig plan that's ridiculous and you go into that savings
calculator and they'll show you how much you could really save you could be like
rotten corpse and our chairman I think he was gonna save like 2500 bucks over
two years he could get himself a new laptop every two years by switching to
ting linux.ting.com they've got a great dashboard no cold no hold customer
service too which is quite awesome so a big thank you to ting for sponsoring
linux unplugged okay Matt moving right along I just got a quick topic I wanted
to toss to you first Matt because you've been around a while and then we'll toss
to the folks in the mumble room and it starts with an email we got from a non
and it kind of got me thinking and I wanted to bounce it around from you guys
and see what you think he says the bash bug shell shock I almost called it
heartbeat shell shock blown totally out of proportion in regards to the
structure without direct terminal access apart from slack code and CGI scripts
and maybe PHP that's why this is way overblown it takes an exploit to run an
exploit with a script injection in my humble opinion it would need an exploit
to run shell shock I'm not sure embedded stuff but it doesn't seem like a big
deal to me media is playing it playing it way over there's a culture of cyber
threats now that is taking this stuff giving it fancy names logos websites
everybody's freaking out about it's on Good Morning America it's on CBS morning
news Matt is it legitimate are we finally seeing people get worried and
motivated to fix security problems or is this just the industry overreacting
creating jobs I don't think it's the industry overreacting I do think that
you will find that with non with folks that are not in the know that they're
looking at these types of situations and they generally happen on a kind of a
plateau or like a mountain type situation to where we'll reach our peak
of oh my god it's y2k and and then after after that's over with we'll have all
these extra food stocks and we'll be living on beans for the next oh my gosh
oh my gosh so you know I think it's one of those things now I think the bigger
problem that we have to remember is that most people outside of security and IT
will only care as long as the news cycle cares once the new cycles done they're
done and then the IT and security people are left picking up the pieces shaking
their heads going god people are idiots and I think that's really where we're at
so wimpy you said you had something brilliant from your local press there
yeah so I was sent an email over the weekend from a colleague of mine from a
newspaper that they were reading and they were like oh my goodness are we
safe and I thought I'd just read two paragraphs yeah okay so it starts a
government databases home computers and global websites are at risk from a
security floor found in hundreds of millions of devices the next paragraph
is called shell shock it could allow criminal gangs take control of computers
and this is the bullshit smartphones and tablets it means credit card details
passwords and sensitive data are at risk of being stolen oh my goodness this
article goes on and on and on and it talks about computers and the web and
blah blah blah and you know what they mentioned Linux once hmm so I say that's
a yes is being overblown but is that a bad thing well it is because this is
what the likes of my mom and my dad read and they suddenly think that all of
their things are at risk creates a techno fear culture exactly and then
there's the people who are calling bash the bug yes right right yeah gosh that
is the when the worst you know when and this this this I'll call him out it's
been Spencer of the Daily Bail and he's apparently their science reporter yeah
and and the thing is is that these sorts of articles you know they're bullshit
when they refer to it so their headline is cyber loophole discovered and he
refers to cyber security experts well as soon as you put cyber in front of
security your article has got no credibility whatsoever cyber loophole
alert warning is computer security flaws puts millions at risk of exposure to
criminals that's a good I'm gonna save this one oh I love I love I love the
fear porn this is some good fear porn right here oh and here he is tweeting
examples of a vulnerable Mac oh it's just be censored from the planet please
I just want him out of there no kidding get him out of here well so go ahead
well I was just gonna follow up saying you know whilst whilst there is some
concern yeah over this and there are some ways that this could be exploited
but it's certainly not on smartphones and tablets you know it might be on some
aged Q mail server that you're running yeah mail filtering rules with a bash
script for example or it might be on some aged CGI server that you're you
know passing to you know a bash back end or something but this is this is not
quite the apocalypse that it's been drawn out to be I'm so glad that blaster
is also just as annoyed by the term cyber oh I'm so sick of it I'm so sick
of cyber it's just yeah who is it the FBI guy oh right yeah oh my gosh yeah
that was the worst that was really the worst yeah yeah cyber this cyber that
yeah they're really it's it's becoming like an industry around it it really is
truly becoming this sick sort of make money off of the fear people who have
no computer skills no text no technical expertise at all can sit here and pump
up the fear about this stuff they just jump on it they glom onto these
situations and and they just they make it the war like they just scare
everybody it is yeah I don't know it is very much so all right guys well so I
had a I had a couple other things I wanted to touch on I think I think I
wanted to read this post that Andrew and I'm sure I'm not gonna get Andrew a I'll
just say and just get your take on this and then we'll move on from the bash bug
thing but he said a dear clueless assholes stop bashing bash and GNU right
there on the screen it says that this is a defense of the most
prolific and dedicated public servant that has graced the world in my lifetime
one man has added hundreds of billions if not trillions of dollars to value in
the global economy this man has worked tireless tirelessly for the benefit of
everyone around him it is impossible to name a publicly traded company that is
not somehow benefited from his contributions and many have benefited to
the tune of billions in return for the countless billions of wealth the people
have made from the fruits of his labor he was rewarded with poverty and
ridicule now the world is done taking now that the world is done taking from
him they're heading for the next step which is vilifying him as incompetent I
speak of Richard Stallman well first of all we are the world we are the children
let's get that out of the way secondly my god what a okay secondly you know I
agreed with everything until you went into the financial end of it that's a
personal choice in my opinion he says by bashing by bashing bash we are slamming
Stallman and GNU what do you think rotten corpse they're giving they're giving us
Stallman way too much credit for what they actually done right so the project
on a ton but RMS himself just kind of organized it well I mean now more so
than ever yes right advocates for it and he helps a lot of things get done but as
far as most of the stuff he does is you know he does documentation which is
important it does translation helping which is important yeah I mean I don't
even I don't even see discussion of the bash shell vulnerability really an
indictment of Richard Stallman at all he's not long he's not the current
maintainer of it I don't really I don't even see doesn't make it in the first
place straw man victim that's what this is is we need a straw man victim and
that's that's all okay so I wasn't sure because I wasn't I guess why I'm okay
but I want to bring this to the human element of it for a second and we have
to acknowledge that these open source projects that we talk about like open
SSL and bash sometime come down to one two three people human beings that are
working on this and then this stuff becomes worldwide news could you imagine
if some open source project that you poked away at over the years all of a
sudden was the attention of the entire world and they were saying such horrible
things about it I'd be scared oh yeah no I can definitely see that being a thing
so which something that Stallman does very well he is able to get on to
various news outlets and believe me they're gonna be more than willing to
have right yes history and he's very he's a very good diplomatic figure that
can just state the case great and actually have a great podium to preach
things that are important yeah which I'm willing to argue that his views are more
important than the FUD about bash I will bet money on that yeah you know that is
a really RMS is really good at going on anywhere that'll have him and really
kind of making his case regardless of the agenda of the host and things like
that so there it is yeah yeah you you know what we don't need to fight for RMS
he is totally capable of defending himself that's a great point all right
logically defending himself on every front he gets I am I am giddy as a
schoolgirl the last thing I want to touch on today I can't believe I waited
till the end of the show because I am so freaking excited first though I want to
tell you about something else I'm extremely excited about that's the
awesome folks over Digital Ocean our last sponsor for Linux unplugged a
digital ocean.com has got a great offer for you that it's the month it's the end
of September already which yeah that blows my face off too I don't even know
how that happened and like the last month my son started school I were
working on some new secret projects in the background and September just flew
by you hear that that's September flying off into the wind but you know what I still see when I
look at that oh there it goes there goes unplug September unplug September you
can still use that to get a $10 credit over Digital Ocean let's rock support
for September on Linux unplugged over at digital ocean.com so what is digital
ocean I'll tell you what digital ocean it it's a simple cloud hosting provider
dedicated offering the most intuitive and easy way to spin up a cloud server
you can probably get started in less than 55 seconds and pricing plans start
at only five dollars per month that'll get you 512 megabytes of RAM a 20
gigabyte SSD one CPU and a terabyte of transfer connected to tier one bandwidth
a date digital ocean has data centers in fact go check out their Instagram they
have some date some data center porn that they posted that is awesome they've
data center locations in New York San Francisco Singapore Amsterdam and London
brand new one there in London IP v6 core OS board is so fancy I'm gonna put one
over there so I can say I have a dated I have a server in London yeah that makes
me feel fancy don't judge they also have an amazing interface with an intuitive
control panel and you can replicate that control panel on a larger scale with
digital oceans straightforward API and that Ubuntu OS that I hear some of you
like guess what they have a notification applet thingy for your Ubuntu I forget
what it's called but you can get one of those little applet thingies for a bond
man is a boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom anyways they got an app
that uses that digital ocean API and you can manage your droplets right from your
Ubuntu desktop it probably works in other districts too I don't know I only
use Ubuntu so I've never tried anything else but you can go to digital ocean
comm use the promo code unplug September to get a $10 credit try out the $5 rig
for two months and trust me because of that 20 gigabyte SSD your IO density is
insane on these things and you can get a ton of machine for $5 per month it is
nuts the value has never been where it's at right now all backed by Linux and KVM
with great data centers all over the world digital ocean comm unplug September
when you check out to get that $10 credit and a huge thank you to digital
ocean for sponsoring Linux unplugged you guys rock I got so many droplets I'm
like the droplet King that's people call me now man they just hey droplet King
what's up and I'm like oh you know spinning up droplets how I roll the lits
drop dropping the lits man all right we got to do it yeah gotta do a valve
update I don't know why I can't help myself I'm a child on the inside but I
am so so so so freaking excited to announce the borderlands 2 one of the
best first-person first-person shooters of all time is now to as of today available on
Steam for Linux it has it has a RPG like where you can upgrade your web your guns
there's so many different types of guns you could modify them you can get as a
whole skill tree system to it but at the end of the day it's also an amazing
first-person cooperative shooter and it also has this great cel-shaded look to
it I played it I think on the console when it first came out I think it might
have been borderlands 1 I played on the car I can't remember but I love the
borderlands series so hard and there's a borderlands prequel coming to Linux soon
too and this is just the icing on the cake because as if I don't know how long
but as of today it's on sale for 75% off it's normally like 20 bucks right now
it's five bucks great deal this is a great game that just hit Linux this is
when we talked about Steam coming to Linux this is one of the games I wanted
to get here this is huge this we are seeing some some amazing games come to
Linux this week and we'll have some more in Linux action show but I don't know
how long that deals going on so I wanted to get the word out right now you guys
can go out there and pick it up for a great price and remember we got some
questions into the show round about 40 hours the deal goes still on oh okay 40
hours perfect so I guess so for people to get in the downloadability grab it to
the prequel is officially confirmed of coming to Linux the same day as the
Windows version 2 so go out there and play it because when the prequel comes
day one Linux support for the new borderlands which is awesome which makes
me want to get the current one even more now here's the thing you have to buy it
from your Linux box okay buy it don't buy it from the web don't buy it from a
Windows machine to play on Linux please try to buy it from your Linux box so
that way it's registered as a Linux purchase if you've already bought it
ahead of time for our for Windows like you already own it like that's happened
to me for a bunch of games that I just bought ahead of time during sales you
have to play it for a couple of weeks under Linux before it's counted as a
Linux play so keep that in mind when you're buying steam games the only
reason we mention this is because I think sometimes I have and I so I'm
assuming maybe some of you have out there's I've pre-bought a few games that
I knew we're gonna come to Linux and I got them on sale and unfortunately when
I did that I just put another checkmark in the Windows column and I feel really
bad about that now so if you're like me and you want to you want to actually
make sure you can demonstrate your support for Linux you do have to buy it
under Linux go ahead Colonel you had a question about Linux steam sales there
was a huge I'll just say discussion for lack of a more polite term in the
mumble room like two nights ago do you know with any certainty if the sale is
tracked by steam on which OS it's purchased oh yeah oh yeah oh yeah how
sure like can you give me can you cite a source for that or is that just your
belief I believe the original clarification came from a developer AMA
on reddit okay and though and the way it works is is it's it's whatever OS is
purchased under and then and then after that what supersedes that is whatever OS
is played under for a two-week period right that was my understanding and
that's what I articulated in the mobile room and then then insert three hours of
non-stop arguing here's where the complexity comes in there is a bit of a
wrinkle to that so you take a company like Aspire or Aspire who ported over
what game did they just put over that was really good Wasteland 2 can't
remember no it wasn't Wasteland 2, Civ 5 they did the Civ 5 port great great
example so they don't even get money unless you buy that under Linux so if
you buy Civ 5 under Windows and then play it under Linux for two weeks it'll
get counted eventually as a Linux player after two weeks of time but they will
never get the revenue for it and this is on Steam this is on Steam so if a
company is contracted like Aspire which does great work to port a game they only
get paid when you specifically buy the Linux version after it's been released
by them in the Steam store and that is exactly why that's exactly why I'm
holding off on civilization beyond earth is waiting for them to land it through
the next because they're gonna be the porters of it so yeah so this is this is
I used to pre-purchase two when the sales were good and now I've stopped
doing that and so but thankfully like Borderlands 2 came out on sale 75% off
so I'm like all right all right it was good waiting so I and I know a lot of us
care about showing support for Linux I mean you know that's why we buy a lot of
the things we buy and and and have a lot of the sponsors we sponsor or have
sponsor us because they are Linux based themself and they promote Linux and so
it's important to me so I wanted to pass that along to you so it's like a little
steam pro tip I guess Chris did you see the valve collection is on offer as
well yes I already have that but that's about 19 hours left to go that's a
really great deal to all the really good as a steam newbie I picked up 23 games
for 18 quid yeah it's a good it is a good time oh look you know what you can
pre-purchase the pre sequel right now and I think it will count as a Linux
purchase because they have it see the way you can tell is if they have the
little penguin by the add to cart then you know if you buy it under Linux it
will be counted as a Linux purchase so and they already have that up for the
the pre sequel pre sequel that's about another 19 hours left on it before it
goes back up to the regular price of $99 it's 75% off yeah I'm looking for I'm
wondering why they don't have like a banner for right now because it's a
really great it was really hard to find yeah I did as well I couldn't find it
through the steam valve complete pack yeah it's 24 bucks right now and I will
link to this in the show notes too so that way you guys don't have to go
search for it like that's close to $150 with the games for 24 bucks you can't
beat it no you get you get the portal series you get left for dead you get the
team fortresses you get your counter strikes your half-lives all the
half-lives yeah yeah between CS go and borderlands 2 I don't know I'm gonna be
able to get any work done anymore under the next how much how much do I have to
pay to get it all open so oh wait so by the way minimum requirements for
borderlands 2 on your Linux box you're gonna need an Intel core 2 quad or AMD
phenom x4 2.4 gigahertz 4 gigs of RAM 13 gigabytes of hard drive space and this
is actually not bad a GeForce 20 I'm sorry a GeForce 260 minimum video that's
I think the cel shading gives you a lot there so here's an interesting note they
put on the Linux requirements they say does your meet your machine doesn't meet
the above specs doesn't mean your configuration won't run borderlands 2
nice yeah essentially the way they put it is you know what it looks like a spy
reported borderlands 2 as well because it says if you have any problems with
Linux please report to the Linux port please please report them to a spy well
that's now now I'm even more happy that it was a spy report it's a def it's a
direct port instead of a yeah yeah exactly instead of the whatever that
rapper thing was wine or wherever you think yeah yeah and also a little plug
for Linux underscore gaming that's a good subreddit where you can get news
Linux underscore gaming not a great name but good subreddit all right well that'll
bring us to the end of today's episode of Linux unplugged join us on Sunday
for a new episode of the Linux action show we do that at 10 a.m. if you'd like
to join us there of course we do this show on Tuesday starting at 2 p.m.
Pacific I don't know what time that is where you're at but you can go over to
Jupiter broadcasting comm slash calendar and our robots will automatically
convert it to your time so that's pretty handy and don't forget we love your
feedback it's a huge part of our show go over to Jupiter broadcasting comm click
the contact link and then choose unplugged from the drop-down you can
also go to Linux action show dot reddit comm that's our subreddit feedback is
appreciated there as you can tell we pay attention to it and we try to cover it
in the shows it's also just a great way to get Linux news throughout the week
and then while you're there vote things up or down just give us an idea of what
you like to see covered and maybe leave a comment and we often sort of
incorporate your insights into our coverage we have an extremely
intelligent audience and we find your insights it's very valuable they are a
great resource for our show Linux action show dot reddit comm all right Matt
well have a great week man yeah you too and I will see you on Sunday we should
have bacon again so excellent I know right and I just put some coca-cola in
the fridge so it'll be nice much appreciated no problem no problem all
right everyone well thank you for joining us this week go over to Twitter
comm slash Chris alias to follow me that's where you'll find announcements
about live shows also have links to Matt social profiles like Matt's on G plus
quite often you can go find him over there Matt Hartley we'll have links to
that in the show notes and I don't forget that subreddit go over there
Linux action show dot reddit comm make a difference if you want to see us cover
more Ubuntu stuff submit it there you want to see us cover less Ubuntu
stuff let us know we'll take it all over there including the feedback it really
is a huge part this show is a community show so it's a huge part of what we do
all right everyone well thank you so much for this week's episode of Linux
unplugged we'll see you right back here next Tuesday
they're fools
there we go yeah I'm gonna do it after I'm buying it right now you know I'm
gonna go buy it right now too what the hell all buy it together I was about to
buy it but then I realize I already have it we should do like a pre-show last
pre-show borderlands 2 thing that'd be fun I forgot to mention it but there's
also like a bunch of DLC you can buy for another five bucks oh the pre the pre
sequel is 60 bucks right now holy crap yeah I think I'll just wait I mean I
want to yeah I can I can show my Linux support when they release it just as
much as I can show it during the pre-order in front of the probably less
money all right JB titles calm gotta pick a title everybody JB titles calm
let's go so I had a question for everybody if you don't mind go man I
mind we do oh well I've been racking my head around something you know I love
all these distributions but when it comes to being marketable in the
workplace I'm trying to figure out which one to specialize so maybe input from
you guys and give me reasons why as well good question what are you trying to do
in in the industry I don't know be employable how's this for an answer
Eric on the server side I've worked exclusively with no I take that back I
worked I worked almost exclusively with Red Hat and I've seen one Debian server
and on the desktop side the two choices that business will allow me to install
or Ubuntu and openSUSE and I and I would say that my experience working with
servers I've only seen Debian and Ubuntu servers and never seen a Red House
into a service and my experience has been a lot of places that have Red Hat
servers often kind of wish they had Debian or Ubuntu servers oh that's true
though I'm actually that's actually legitimately true now the difference is
it's it's I have probably seen it depends Eric so on on-premise I see a
lot more Red Hat or CentOS actually I see a lot more I've seen a lot but in
in in hosted environments in the cloud or brand brand new infrastructures like
they're building a server for the first time like an internal lamp server or
something like that it's really often Ubuntu interesting so maybe it's a good
idea to be specializing in both ecosystems then I'd say look at your
region because at the region and area that you want to work in and see which
type of company the size of the company and the structure they have often
impacts the software they use and as a result in the area that you want to work
on you focus on that it doesn't matter you can actually come and ask what kind
of software they use if you are a sales guy you will get this information because
people are willing to talk about the cool stuff they have in the house okay
so here's what I'm thinking here's what I'm getting from you guys it's a good
thing then to have the know-how from both the Ubuntu families which would
cover Debian as well and from CentOS which would cover Red Hat as well yeah I
think yeah yeah I think that's two really good ones to focus on for
employability skills yeah and here's another thought you have food for thought
Eric and Chris you told me if this has been your experience as well very rarely
at least in big organizations have ever gone to work where they just say have at
it us here's the most times there's a senior admin on staff that says we want
these very specific things done and then they essentially describe to you would
dictate to you what it is so it's not like you walk into to us I mean every
once in a while it happens but usually don't walk into a site and they're like
we have problem XYZ and we need you to craft a solution usually they're
dictating so okay let's talk about titles for a second then we'll go back
so we I like a storm is brewing calm before the storm and who do I have to
blow but we probably shouldn't go with that as a title calm before the storm
is pretty good a storm is brewing is also pretty good
Pope he runs Chris yeah I think calm before the storm is actually apt and
accurate did somebody say apt oh let's apt-get Odyssey Westras title
suggestion wait it hurts yeah Eric I you know it's it's going back to the there's
a lot of different ways to look at distributions and how what makes them
relevant you know like what agenda can they push forward could be one way to
look at it what is the most employable that's another way to look at which has
the most faces staring at the screen if I want to develop an app that's another
way to look at it which one gives me the best satisfaction that's another way to
look at it it's like and everybody's coming at it from different
perspectives and so you know like I'd say if employability is the things the
reason he wants to work or needs to work in is the key right that's right his
limitation yeah and there's some areas where opens or where Sousa Enterprise
servers the top dog and that's typically like Europe and whatnot and over here
seems like this continent really likes Red Hat that's at least why I've been
getting and that's might be because Red Hat is based in North Carolina here's
yes an American here's a really super crazy ass don't like bet your life on it
rough rule of thumb to follow if it's if it's a product driven by developers you
and that's the area you're gonna go into like small businesses where somebody
created something and they formed a business around it they're gonna be
using Ubuntu if it's an established business where they've been around for a
long time maybe they've been calling it the MIS department since the 80s they're
gonna be running Red Hat so whatever you're targeting that's so depending on
which ones you're targeting that's that would be a really kind of crazy ass
loose rough rule of thumb to follow here's another crazy ass loose rule of
thumb to follow if you judge them and they have character they'll be running
Red Hat I want to simultaneously target both because I want to be as
employable as possible to anybody I've been I'm wearing on like you guys thought
chases unemployment situation was bad I know I know do we have a website to
track your employment not yet just just give her a pass by on the companies make
a list of the companies of your year of your area that's if that's the area you
want to work in and it's in your region that's how you're gonna be able to see
what you need to focus first because you want to try your chances nearby I assume
don't forget that some some companies will let you work from home for example
the one I work at and we hire people who we often hire people who have a track
record of community contribution so you can build up quite a portfolio on github
rather than having a CV that's based on experience from companies if you're if
your if your personal contributions to projects are significant enough that can
be enough of a CV I agree in fact I've always you know I it's really a mistake
to hire somebody based on what distribution they know what you really
want to know is how adept are they at Linux and how fast can they adapt
because truth be told distros change a shit ton over five six years and so like
one distro will have Zen for a couple of years and then that distro even though
it's a huge enterprise distro in the next release will switch to KVM and then
the next release will switch to systemd and then the next release will totally
integrate Docker containers and reformat you know like it's just there it's
always changing right and and so yet to get too locked into which distro is kind
of like it's sort of like this accidental getting locked into how
Linux is today really it's more about what you already do staying informed
following the trends seeing the new technologies how do those adapt to
workloads how would I integrate those and and you know maybe today you're
gonna deploy that package using yum but in two years when you're sitting at a
reddit enterprise Linux box you're gonna be using DNF right and it's it doesn't
it doesn't really matter it changes anyways I get what you're saying at the
same time that's a very that's a very difficult metric to codify right yeah
yeah well that's I was about to say you're probably better off to do
something to show people that you were worth for them to be trained then train
training yourself to be to get hired by some specific company because that just
may not work out yeah well here's one thing I've noticed and lately I was just
kind of trolling some stuff it will not really troll it but going through some
stuff on LinkedIn and I did come across a job posting for somebody and they
basically said they wanted like four years of centos experience specifically
I was like what okay hmm if I could pass along two pieces of advice that have
gotten me through some really rough points in time it's one who you know be
where the people that we want you want to be hired our conventions anything you
can do to be in their face I've gotten work with people one company comes to
mind specifically dating years back that I'm still with to this day that happened
because I asked a question I got in the guy's face I asked two questions next
within a month's time I had actually developed a contract with this company
yeah the guy happens you know hold on let let Colonel links go cuz he's hiring
guys to work on Linux all the time oh yeah there you go there you go well I
was just gonna say when we were at when we were at self q5 and at the guy we
interviewed for arches and not arch assault he was doing the other booth he
was doing the the scepter the the thin PC he got his job the year before at
self because he walked up to the booth and said this is really cool what are
you guys doing here and the guy gave him a job right on the spot well so I guess
so when you're looking you know so you're hiring some guy who's gonna cover
for you when you're going to things like self you're going to OSCON you're going
to Ohio Linux fest how do you know that guy you're gonna hire is gonna be able
to handle a Linux problem when it comes up what test can you give him and the
reason why I asked that is because maybe Eric could take that and reverse
engineer it and kind of figure out you know what to expect so what do you like
what do you look for Noah well we so I won't personally just because the
community a small word spreads fast I can't take a chance on on on measuring
that metric wrong I won't I won't let somebody work out unless go on their own
unless they've been with me for six or seven weeks and I they come around and
then we go through and go over all the stuff that we do and then after that I
let him run solo but places like what was we did an interview at Linux fest
Northwest yeah and that's exactly what they do they have a test that I can't
remember the name do you know what I do but I don't remember the name either go
back and look at the Northwest episode Eric because they have a there was it
there was a group there that essentially what you do is you go to
their site and you can take their tests and then they send those to potential
and so employer goes out and they say I'm looking for somebody that knows
rel6 then this company will say here are the people that have successfully
completed a test with 80% or higher in rel6 it's that might be a thought too
yeah it's very cool that one thing you also want to watch out for is the worst
thing you can ever do is be that guy that is like you could be the best the
most certified at rel6 expert and then they ask you to use rel7 you're like
well I'm not certified for that right yeah right yeah never be that guy yeah
yeah textbook smart but can problem solve your way out of a paper bag are you
talking about Cisco guys yeah